# What if my travel to Vancouver is delayed?

**If you will be late by a few weeks:** don't panic! I will be posting
recordings of the lectures to the Canvas page, and all of your coursework will
be completed on our course server electronically, so you won't miss anything.

**If you will be late by more than a few weeks:** note that this semester you
are required to be here in Vancouver. We hold our quizzes in-person (for
both sections!), and the first quiz happens usually at the end of the 4th week
/ beginning of the 5th week of class. Attendance is mandatory. Please contact
the course instructor in the event your arrival in Vancouver is delayed longer
than a few weeks.

# What if I get sick during the semester?

#### DO NOT COME TO CLASS.

I will continue recording and posting lecture videos on Canvas throughout the semester, so you will not miss anything.

# What if I get sick right before a quiz?

#### DO NOT COME TO THE QUIZ.

Please contact the instructor as far in advance as possible to make alternate arrangements.

# What is the structure of the class?

Each week (starting on Thursday) will have the following pattern:

- I will release pre-lecture reading material a few days earlier (usually on
  Tuesday)
- In lecture on Thursday, I will begin with a brief lecture to introduce a new
  concept. Then you'll do a worksheet to practice the concept.
- Your lecture worksheet will be due Saturday at 10pm pacific time.
- Then you'll have until the next tutorial with no lecture/tutorial assignments
  due. Woohoo!
- On Tuesday, the TAs will run a tutorial to reinforce the concept we learned
  on Thursday. You'll do another worksheet to practice the concept. The
tutorial worksheets are generally harder than the lecture worksheets.
- The tutorial worksheet will be due at the beginning of lecture on Thursday at
  6pm pacific time.

There will be 3 quizzes throughout the semester; the first two are held in
class, and the last is during the exam period, but they'll all be the same
format (unless otherwise notified).

There will be a class project, which you will complete with a randomly-assigned
group.

# How do I submit an assignment?

**Lecture / Tutorial Worksheets:** You must complete all of your lecture and
tutorial worksheets on our JupyterHub server. Once you are done working, just
go to File -> Save and Checkpoint, and make sure the checkpoint is "a few
seconds ago" at the top of your screen. We will show you how to do this in
class. You don't need to click "submit" anywhere -- our server will
automatically take a snapshot of your assignment at the due date. Make sure you
do not move / rename your assignment from where it originally was on the
server.

**Projects / other assignments:** You will submit these on Canvas.

# How do I get my assignment regraded?

*Per the syllabus:* ask the TA who graded the assignment to take a second look
at it. You can post on Piazza using a private message to the teaching team and
we will respond there.

*Note:* We will only regrade to correct mistakes that we made when grading.
Please see the syllabus for our policy regarding autograding.

# Where do I find due dates?

All due dates are listed on Canvas.

# What if I registered late? When are things due?

Hi! Welcome to DSCI100 -- glad to have you on board. Since we have a new
assignment in every class session, there are already a few assignments to catch
up on:

If you registered after a class session (Tues/Thurs 6pm pacific time) already
happened, then the assignment from that class session will be due exactly 1
week after your registration date & time.


If you registered before a class session (Tues / Thurs 6pm) happens, the
assignment from that class is due at the normal time.

# I'm going to be late / absent for a class! Who do I notify?

I do not need to be informed when you'll be absent from a regular class. I
understand that not everyone will be able to attend the lecture/tutorial
sessions. There are no marks assigned for attending class. I am hoping the
flexibility of this course will allow you to access the learning materials
wherever you are and whenever you need them. 

If you are going to be absent from a quiz, you need to fill out a self-declared concession form in a timely manner. See the course policies on the syllabus for details.

# Do I satisfy the math requirement for this class?

Yes. There is no hard math prerequisite; MATH12 (or equivalent) is suggested but not required.

# How do I get help in the course?
**During Lectures & Tutorials:** You can use lecture and tutorial time to ask
questions, discuss and receive individual feedback regarding your worksheets,
tutorials, or group project. Myself, the TAs and your fellow classmates will be
available to help you work through the problems!

**Office Hours:** The TAs and I will hold office hours at various times
throughout the week via  Zoom / Collaborate Ultra. I encourage you to ask
questions about the worksheets, tutorials, the project or any other questions
about the course material!

**Piazza Discussion Board:** You can post on the Piazza Discussion board to ask your questions about the course material. You can also help your classmates by answering their questions! 

**Email:** If you have personal questions that do not pertain to the course material itself you can email me. For questions about the course material, please post your questions on Piazza! Please note: I respond to emails M - F, and I try my best to answer you as promptly as possible, however, given the large class size I may take a few days to respond.

**Do not send me email at my `mail.ubc.ca` or `.ubc.ca` account; I don't check those. Please send it to the email address listed on the syllabus.**

# How do I do well in this course?
**Most importantly:** complete the lecture and tutorial worksheets. These
are intended to help you learn the concepts so you'll do well on the project
and quizzes. The worksheets tend to be a bit easier and provide more guidance.
The tutorials are more difficult and give you a good sense for how well you've
learned the material. Students who make an effort to complete all of the
worksheets and tutorials tend to perform well in the class.

You can collaborate with your peers (this is encouraged!) as discussing the
material while you work on it will help you learn. But you are not allowed to
simply copy another student's work. That is plagiarism, which is expressly
forbidden in the course policy.

Time management is very important in this course. There are regular assessments
every week to keep you on track, but we move quickly and cover a lot of
ground.  The time management toolkit on the Learning Commons website may be a
useful tool for you.

Take an active role in the learning community that we will build together. Ask
questions on Piazza when you have them, and try to answer each others'
questions when you can.
